---
description: Build interactive and reusable elements with Nuxt components
title: Nuxt
navigation:
  icon: i-simple-icons-nuxt
---

## Nuxt App

Virtauma is built on top of **Nuxt 4**, which means your documentation project is a full Nuxt application. When you scaffold a project using the **Virtauma CLI**, it adds a layer by default giving you all the flexibility of a standard Nuxt app.

By default, the Virtauma starter only contains a `content/` and `public/` folder and a `package.json`. This is all you need to start writing your documentation. You can go further and use any feature of a Nuxt project, from [nuxt.config.ts](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt-config) to [components](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt-config) or [plugins](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins).

::note
You can use the Nuxt 4 [new directory structure](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/upgrade#new-directory-structure) provided by the [compatibility version 4 .]() All files related to front app code goes in `app/` folder for cleaner organization and better IDE performance.
::

## Nuxt Modules

Want to enhance your docs with custom functionality? You can install and configure [Nuxt modules]() just like in any Nuxt app.

To add [Plausible analytics](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/plausible?utm_source=nuxt.com\&utm_medium=aside-module\&utm_campaign=nuxt.com) to your documentation:

::steps
### Run the following command

```bash [Terminal]
npm install @nuxtjs/plausible
```

### Enable the module in `nuxt.config.ts`

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/plausible'],
})
```
::

## Custom Components

With the power of `Nuxt Content` and `Nuxt UI`, and with the help of the `MDC` syntax, you can use [Nuxt UI components](/en/essentials/components) directly in your Markdown without any extra configuration needed.

However, you are not limited to pre-built components. Virtauma makes it easy to create your own Vue components in your Nuxt app and use them in your content.

This approach lets you create dynamic docs powered by Nuxt components using Markdown.

## Vue Pages

In addition to Markdown pages, you can also create Vue pages in the `pages/` directory.

```vue [pages/hello.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Hello</h1>
  </div>
</template>
```

You can also use the `definePageMeta` function to set the page meta, such as using the `default` or `docs` layout, but also to define if the page should display the header and the footer:

```vue [pages/hello.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  layout: 'default',
  // Remove the header
  header: false,
  // Remove the footer
  footer: false,
})
</script>
```


## Custom Layouts

Virtauma uses two layouts:
- `default` layout for the landing page and custom Vue pages
- `docs` layout for the documentation pages

If you want to use a different layout, you can create one in the `app/layouts/` directory.

```vue [app/layouts/custom.vue]
<template>
  <main class="custom-layout">
    <slot />
  </main>
</template>
```